All right.
So in this lesson, I'd like to walk through one more example of using the ref function and the computed
function from the View Library.
And we'll deal with a totally different data type here, which is a string.
So I'm going to remove all of the code I have here.
I'm going to keep my ref and computed imports because I am going to need those.
So let me introduce a similar problem to the one we encountered early, earlier, but now we're going
to deal with strings.
So let's say I have a name variable set to Boris and let's say I have a title variable and I want that
to be equal to whatever is stored in name and plus the concatenated string, the great.
All right.
So obviously if I take a look at console.log title now, we're going to see that my title is going to
be equal to Boris the Great.
I've simply added together those two strings.
Now, let's say what I'd like this program to do is watch for whenever my name variable changes.
For example, if name changes to Peter, I'd like for my title string to now be updated to reflect the
new name.
So I'd like for title to be Peter the Great now.
But of course with traditional JavaScript, if I run this file, you'll see we're still going to get
Boris the Great.
So let's reuse the ideas that we introduced in the previous lessons.
All right.
So to begin, whenever we want some kind of initial data that we're going to eventually watch, we use
the ref function, right?
So here, instead of using a plain string of Boris, I'm going to pass this string as an argument to
the ref function.
And what that is going to return to me is going to be a reactive object that the view function or the
view library will construct for us.
And that's object will have a value property set to my original string of Boris.
Now keep in mind, this is something I forgot to mention the previous lesson.
Because we have an object here, we can actually stick to a contract right here.
Right?
Because we're not actually going to ever reassign a variable anymore.
We're going to reassign a value property on an object so we can maintain a constant reference to the
same object throughout our program later on.
If we ever want to do something like name value equals, we don't need to have a new variable in order
to do that because we have this existing object.
So now we can use cards to store our objects here instead of using LAT to store our original strings.
All right, so what's the next thing that we want to do?
Well, we want our title.
To be something that is dynamically calculated based on whatever the current value is of name.
So it is computed, it is derived, it is whatever the name is, plus d concatenated string of the great.
So whenever I have that idea of a derived value or a calculated value, a computed value, a dependent
value, whatever you want to call it, we want to use our computed function and we pass computed a function
of our own.
So I'm going to do a arrow function right here.
And that arrow function specifies what we want view to run any time something changes.
And when I say something, I mean whatever it is that we reference here in the body of this arrow function.
So simply by referencing name dot value, what that means is whenever the value property on my name
reactive object changes to anything other than Borris, this computed function will reevaluate itself.
So right now all I'm going to return is the exact same value as whatever I have on the name reactive
object.
What I obviously want to do is make this derived.
So it's going to be the current name I have, plus the appended string of the great.
All right.
And that is going to allow us to have the design that we want.
So when the program kicks off and I look at title value because remember, we have to reference any
of those pieces of information through the value property on the respective object.
Same thing with name dot value by the way.
We can't just simply console.log name.
We have to do name dot value.
So we're going to see the values Boris and Boris the great respectively.
And those again, are the outputs of this reactive object's value property and this reactive object's
value property.
But the advantage of this approach, of course, is if we change our name value.
So on this name object, I'm going to access the value property and I'm going to overwrite it to something
else.
Such as Peter.
Then.
This computer function will reevaluate and view will automatically assign the value property on my title
reactive object so that when I console.log title that value we'll see that it has indeed updated to
Peter the Great.
And there we see it's gone from Boris the Great to Peter the Great.
All right.
So this is an example of passing in a string to our ref function to create a reactive object around
a string.
The reason, by the way, why the View Development Team needs an object is because it needs a complex
data structure that enables it to support things like methods and properties.
So a simple primitive in JavaScript like a string or a boolean or a number doesn't have the necessary
functionality, even the technical foundation, to enable those kinds of complex methods that watch
for changes.
So no matter what you pass in to ref view is always going to wrap it in this big helper object, what
we call the reactive object that's going to keep track of that state.
Right.
And of course, there's a lot of internals and complications to how that object works, but we don't
really need to worry about it.
We just need to know how to reference its current value as well as how we can set up something to watch
for changes in that object which we do with the computed function.
By the way, we can also pass complex objects to ref such as arrays or regular JavaScript objects and
it's going to work the exact same way.
Just keep in mind that we're going to always have a value property on the reactive object returned by
ref that's going to give us the reference to the original object.
We're going to see more of that in the very next lesson.